# Getting started

## Installation

Install and configure the package using the following command :

```sh
node ace add @foadmin/shopkeeper
```

:::disclosure{title="See steps performed by the add command"}

1. Installs the `adonis-shopkeeper` package using the detected package manager.

2. Registers the following service provider inside the `adonisrc.ts` file.

    ```ts
    {
      providers: [
        // ...other providers
        () => import('adonis-shopkeeper/providers/shopkeeper')
      ]
    }
    ```

3. Create the `config/shopkeeper.ts` file. This file contains the configuration settings for selected OAuth providers.

4. Defines the environment variables to store `STRIPE_KEY`, `STRIPE_SECRET` and `STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET`.

5. Creates the database migrations files for the tables `users`, `suscriptions` and `subscription_items`.

:::

Then migrate your database:

```sh
node ace migration:run
```

Shopkeeper's migrations will add several columns to your `users` table. They will also create a new `subscriptions` table to hold all of your customer's subscriptions and a subscription_items table for subscriptions with multiple prices.

Lastly, to ensure Shopkeeper properly handles all Stripe events, remember to [configure Cashier's webhook handling](./webhook).

## Configuration

### Billable Model

Before using Shopkeeper, add the `Billable` mixin to your billable model definition. Typically, this will be the `User` model. This trait provides various methods to allow you to perform common billing tasks, such as creating subscriptions, applying coupons, and updating payment method information:

```ts
// title: app/models/user.ts
import { compose } from '@adonisjs/core/helpers'
import { BaseModel } from '@adonisjs/lucid/orm'
import { Billable } from 'adonis-shopkeeper/mixins'

export default class User extends compose(BaseModel, Billable) {}
```

In your Shopkeeper configuration file, define your User as the Customer model:

```ts
// title: config/shopkeeper.ts
import { defineConfig } from 'adonis-shopkeeper'

export default defineConfig({
  customerModel: () => import('#models/user')
  ...
})
```

:::warning

When using a model with a different name than `User`, make sure to change the table name in the generated migration.

:::

### API Keys

Next, you should configure your Stripe API keys in your application's `.env` file. You can retrieve your Stripe API keys from the Stripe control panel:

```ini
// title: .env
STRIPE_KEY=your-stripe-key
STRIPE_SECRET=your-stripe-secret
STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET=your-stripe-webhook-secret
```

> [!WARNING]  
> You should ensure that the `STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET` environment variable is defined in your application's `.env` file, as this variable is used to ensure that incoming webhooks are actually from Stripe.

<a name="currency-configuration"></a>

### Currency Configuration

The default Shopkeeper currency is United States Dollars (USD). You can change the default currency by setting the `SHOPKEEPER_CURRENCY` environment variable within your application's `.env` file:

```ini
// title: .env
SHOPKEEPER_CURRENCY=eur
```

In addition to configuring Cashier's currency, you may also specify a locale to be used when formatting money values for display on invoices. Internally, Cashier utilizes [`Intl.NumberFormat`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/NumberFormat) to set the currency locale:

```ini
// title: .env
SHOPKEEPER_CURRENCY_LOCALE=nl_BE
```

### Tax Configuration

Thanks to [Stripe Tax](https://stripe.com/tax), it's possible to automatically calculate taxes for all invoices generated by Stripe. You can enable automatic tax calculation by setting `calculateTaxes` option to true in the Shopkeeper's configuration file:

```ts
// title: config/shopkeeper.ts
import { defineConfig } from 'adonis-shopkeeper'

export default defineConfig({
  calculateTaxes: true
  ...
})
```

Once tax calculation has been enabled, any new subscriptions and any one-off invoices that are generated will receive automatic tax calculation.

For this feature to work properly, your customer's billing details, such as the customer's name, address, and tax ID, need to be synced to Stripe. You may use the [customer data synchronization](./customers#syncing-customer-data-with-stripe) and [Tax ID](./customers#tax-ids) methods offered by Shopkeeper to accomplish this.

### Using custom models

You are free to extend the models used internally by Shopkeeper by defining your own model and extending the corresponding Shopkeeper model:

```ts
// title: app/models/user.ts
import { Subscription as ShopkeeperSubscription } from 'adonis-shopkeeper/models'

export default class Subscription extends ShopkeeperSubscription {
  // ...
}
```

After defining your model, you may instruct Shopkeeper to use your custom model via the configuration file:

```ts
// title: config/shopkeeper.ts
import { defineConfig } from 'adonis-shopkeeper'

export default defineConfig({
  subscriptionModel: () => import('#models/subscription')
  subscriptionItemModel: () => import('#models/subscription_item')
  ...
})
```
